Well, after all of that, let's uh bring
in a corporate voice at the top of 10
now. Mr. Gopal Balachandran, CFO at
ICICI Lombard here to speak with us.
Stock obviously a buzz. Uh to start
with, sir, could you share your outlook
for FY26 specifically? How should we
interpret your expectations versus what
has already happened in H1 in terms of
growth as well as in terms of the
trajectory on the combined? How are you
seeing it
>> from an IC alumba standpoint? uh our our
philosophy of uh underwriting has always
been to kind of stay focused on driving
profitable growth as a theme and to that
extent is what we have tried to kind of
balance uh uh growth with prudent risk
selection uh in terms of how we have
kind of gone about underwriting uh the
portfolio. uh to your specific point on
how do we see the trajectory play out in
terms of the second half of the year. I
think the thought process is pretty much
the same as in to kind of keep uh
sustaining uh profitable risk selection
opportunities and in the process try and
see if we can kind of continue to see an
improvement in our combined ratios
relative to what is getting exhibited
currently and on a sustained basis. I
think this is something that we have
spoken even to the markets and also to
the investors and analysts at large to
try and sustain a return on equity in
the range of 18 to 20%. So that is
something that we will be kind of uh
very very actively uh working towards.
uh but all in all I think obviously we
would want what we are seeing on ground
is a very very positive momentum in
terms of our ability to write uh
incremental growth opportunities and
hence to that extent particularly in the
context of second half I think very very
excited to see how that is likely to
play out for growth uh in the context of
IC robust
>> right and your gross premium that
declined about 12% sequentially if you
can just share your thoughts on hat
quarter and quarter will always be a uh
uh there will be always various nuances
when you look when you start looking at
numbers more on let's say sequential
quarters uh because quarter one of uh
any financial year will be significantly
heavy on the corporate/commercial lines
book because most of the corporates
typically tend to kind of renew their
portfolio in uh uh in the quarter one of
the year uh whereas typically you will
see quarter 2 quarter three are periods
where relatively the proportion of the
retail lines of businesses are slightly
more higher and also you get to see uh
to what whatever extent that we
participate in uh in the context of crop
insurance you will also get to see some
of those book uh bookings happening but
a larger a better way to kind of look at
it will be more let's say either
relative quarter of the same period
let's say quarter two of this year to
quarter two of last year so in that
context I think our growth would have
been relatively in that sense subdued
Because equally quarter two of last year
we did have a slightly higher amount of
crop insurance premiums that had got
booked. However, relative to that I
think if you would have seen uh in
quarter two of this year I think the
proportion of crop insurance has been
relatively lowered. So that's one of the
factors when you see uh the growth
numbers but more than that I think what
we are very excited with is the mix of
business that we have been able to
underwrite from a profitable growth
standpoint. I think that is something
that we are very very excited with and
that's the reason if you look at from in
terms of outcomes uh there has been an
improvement in the combined ratios
whether you look at quarter two of last
year to quarter two of this year on an
end basis and that has also translated
into what I talked about in terms of
return on equity of slightly more than
20% uh that we have been able to exhibit
>> and Mr. Balachandran with regard to
underwriting losses they remain
elevated. I understand that there was
some cat losses which came through this
quarter but what's being done is is
there uh paths to improvement with
regard to that as well as profitability?
I think again this point keeps coming uh
up uh uh many times uh and we would want
to kind of keep reiterating the fact
that when you look at an insurance
company's uh uh financials uh the way
the accounting prescription works
currently is when you write a risk today
the earnings of that risk will happen
through the policy period. However, any
cost that we would have incurred with
respect to sourcing that particular
policy gets expensed out immediately and
that is the reason when when you get to
see from an absolute underwriting
outcome, you may possibly see an outcome
which is in that sense maybe a negative
or maybe an adverse uh number uh on an
absolute basis and that's the reason why
we keep saying a better better yard
stick to look at an insurance company's
financials is more on the combined ratio
of what gets exhibited and that is what
I was kind of referring to. So for
example, if you would have looked at the
quarter 2 combined ratios on an N basis
last year, that number for the company
as a whole was 104.5%.
And the same for quarter two of this
year, that number actually kind of looks
better at about 103.9%.
Again on an end basis. So we have
actually been able to see an improvement
relative to let's say the quality of
risk that we were able to underwrite.
and and and therefore from an absolute
basis I think it is uh because of the
way the accounting prescription works it
may not truly reflect the outcome of the
book that is being underwritten combined
ratios/ return on equities are better
metricizes to kind of look at in the
context of the outcomes for a general
insurance company's financials
>> right and what led to the degrowth in
group health and do you expect a
recovery in the second half of the
fiscal
>> yeah so I think uh group health is
definitely one of the segments that
remains an area of focus because that is
something that we are able to exhibit
along with group health. We also exhibit
a lot more uh lines of businesses when
we kind of deal with corporates uh
whether you look at fire, whether you
look at engineering, marine cargo,
liability etc etc and within that also
we are kind of quite positive for the
group health line of business. um uh the
way we have kind of looked at from an
ISIS standpoint on corporate health has
been uh it has obviously obviously been
an opportunistic play. I think when we
see the pricing levels right I think we
are able to kind of uh right incremental
businesses that is also what got
reflected if you would have seen for the
month of uh uh September again I think
we have been able to kind of exhibit a
positive growth but where we see let's
say pricing pressures getting exhibited
on that segment and therefore to that
extent that we will start taking
relatively a guarded stance uh so hence
more an opportunistic play depending on
how what kind of a pricing environment
that we get to see in the market But the
way we have looked at corporate health
is not just to look at it on a
standalone basis but obviously look at
how we can kind of work with the
corporate in trying and make sure that
we are pretty much a part of the
insurance offerings of the corporate
across different risks that we propose
to cover for them.
>> And how is the shift towards motor
likely to happen? Is it going to impact
your portfolio profitability claims
ratios? What's the outlook on motor is
what I'd want to really understand
because there's such a push with regard
to auto growth
>> in the recent ones we do see incremental
opportunities playing out also in the
context of commercial vehicles and
therefore to that extent possibly you
see you may see a mix which can undergo
a change. So that's something that we
keep balancing every month in terms of
uh which are the segments that we need
to underwrite which are the segments
that we need to be slightly more guarded
and therefore the outcome is what we
kind of exhibit to the market. Uh to
your final point on how do we see the
trend play out for motor going ahead uh
this has to be looked at in couple of
context one if you look at for motor
industry combined ratios industry
combined ratios for motor is at 125%.
And therefore to that extent it
effectively means that you're losing 25
pes for every rupee of premium that
you're underwriting. So that's a lot of
money for the market to lose at. And
therefore to that extent you have to be
slightly more guarded in terms of what
kind of quality of risk that you want to
underwrite. Which is why we have been
very very selective on the quality of
the book that one wants to write in the
context of motor. But within that I
think we are seeing a lot of uh green
shoots particularly with the spate of
reforms that the various regulatory
authorities have been able to put on
ground and that is kind of aing very
well in the context of ICLA. But in
terms of how does one see the growth
play out very very positive is the way
we kind of look at in terms of how
things will play out. So that is one
factor in terms of the combined issues
for the industry. The second factor is
this is the third year of the glide path
for expense of management guidelines. So
companies which have been in exance of
the limits on expense of management has
to bring down the uh bring down their uh
expenses of management. For SS Lombard
we have always been well within the
limits and therefore that will also be a
key uh factor uh that one would look at
very very closely in terms of how growth
in motor is likely to shape up for going
ahead.
>> Right. Right. And has the GST reform
triggered any early signs of product
innovation or cross-ell opportunities
particularly in the health and motor
segments?
>> What we are very very excited with is uh
the various reforms that has been
exhibited on ground by various
authorities uh whether it's the
government or whether it is the whether
it is the uh our own our own uh uh
regulatory authorities or even for the
matter of fact any other regulators. I
think generally what they have kind of
been able to put across as a state of
reforms which augers very well in the
context of uh customers uh uh momentum
getting played out and that is what is
getting exhibited if you look at the
early signs in terms of pent-up demand/
festive cheer that is getting exhibited
in the context of uh higher volume sales
of vehicles that one is one has been
able to see and that is something that
we called out even as a part of the
investor call that we had last evening
and even in the context of what they
have done on health uh in terms of uh uh
uh removing GST on uh health insurance,
retail health insurance premiums that
again kind of augers very well and this
is one area where ISIS Lombard is in
which way has been investing in terms of
expanding distribution and improving our
product suit and very happy to note that
from an ICAR standpoint consequent to
some of the measures that we have been
taking and with the state of reforms
that has been put in the context of GST
our retail health market share uh as we
week for the month of September has
actually kind of crossed more than 4%.
uh just to put this in context our
retail health market share used to be
averaging anywhere between 2.9 3%
thereabout for quite some time and with
the changes that we have been able to
exhibit and including the reforms that
one has been able to
see that I think clearly I think we are
again very very excited with how uh
things are playing out and with this
reforms further it is only going to add
more impetus in the way we will be able
to kind of write this particular line of
business so very excited with
opportunities in terms of the road ahead
today
>> right great to get in that color from
you on the earnings gone by and of
course the future visibility as well
good speaking with you that's the
management of ICSL lumbar on that note
we're going to take a very quick Greek.